---
title: Tapability API v1
---

# API v1

This describes the resources that make up the official Tapability API v1. If
you have any problems or requests please contact
[support](mailto:support@tapability.org?subject=API).

* TOC
{:toc}

## Schema

All API access is over HTTPS, and accessed from the `tapability.org/api/v1`
domain.  All data is sent and received as JSON.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://tapability.org/api/v1/jobs

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Server: nginx
Date: Fri, 12 Oct 2012 23:33:14 GMT
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Connection: keep-alive
Status: 200 OK
ETag: "a00049ba79152d03380c34652f2cb612"
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4999
Content-Length: 5
Cache-Control: max-age=0, private, must-revalidate
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff

[]
</pre>

Blank fields are included as `null` instead of being omitted.

All timestamps are returned in ISO 8601 format:

    YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM:SSZ

## Parameters

Many API methods take optional parameters. For GET requests, any parameters not
specified as a segment in the path can be passed as an HTTP query string
parameter:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i "https://tapability.org/api/v1/jobs?sort=created"
</pre>

In this example, the `:sort` parameter is passed in the query string.

For POST requests, parameters not included in the URL should be encoded as JSON
with a Content-Type of 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded':

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -H "X-Tapability-Token: TOKEN" -d '{"title":"Assistant Regional Manager","description":""}' https://tapability.org/api/v1/jobs
</pre>

## Client Errors

There are three possible types of client errors on API calls that
receive request bodies:

1. Sending invalid JSON will result in a `400 Bad Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 35

        {"message":"Problems parsing JSON"}

2. Sending the wrong type of JSON values will result in a `400 Bad
   Request` response.

        HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
        Content-Length: 40

        {"message":"Body should be a JSON Hash"}

3. Sending invalid fields will result in a `422 Unprocessable Entity`
   response.

        HTTP/1.1 422 Unprocessable Entity
        Content-Length: 149

        {
          "message": "Validation Failed",
          "errors": [
            {
              "resource": "Job",
              "field": "date",
              "code": "missing_field"
            }
          ]
        }

All error objects have resource and field properties so that your client
can tell what the problem is.  There's also an error code to let you
know what is wrong with the field.  These are the possible validation error
codes:

missing
: This means a resource does not exist.

missing\_field
: This means a required field on a resource has not been set.

invalid
: This means the formatting of a field is invalid.  The documentation
for that resource should be able to give you more specific information.

already\_exists
: This means another resource has the same value as this field.  This
can happen in resources that must have some unique key (such as Label
names).

If resources have custom validation errors, they will be documented with the resource.

## HTTP Redirects

API v1 uses HTTP redirection where appropriate. Clients should assume that any request may result in a redirection. Receiving an HTTP redirection is *not* an error and clients should follow that redirect. Redirect responses will have a `Location` header field which contains the URI of the resource to which the client should repeat the requests.

301
: Permanent redirection. The URI you used to make the request has be superseded by the one specified in the `Location` header field. This and all future requests to this resource should be directed the new URI.

302, 307
: Temporary redirection. The request should be repeated verbatim to the URI specified in the `Location` header field but clients should continue to use the original URI for future requests.

Other redirection status codes may be used in accordance with the HTTP 1.1 spec.

## HTTP Verbs

Where possible, API v1 strives to use appropriate HTTP verbs for each
action.

HEAD
: Can be issued against any resource to get just the HTTP header info.

GET
: Used for retrieving resources.

POST
: Used for creating resources, or performing custom actions (such as
expiring a job listing).

PATCH
: Used for updating resources with partial JSON data. For instance, a
job resource has `title` and `description` attributes, among others. A
PATCH request may accept one or more of the attributes to update the resource.

DELETE
: Used for deleting resources.

## Authentication

ALL API requests require authentication. There are no exceptions.

Requests to valid endpoints will return 404, instead of 403,
in some places.  This is to prevent the accidental leakage of private
information to unauthorized users.

General API usage uses keys (tokens) for authentication. A single account can have
any number of keys, allowing users to invalidate a token used on with a particular
service or device. All user keys are immediately revoked when a user changes their
password.

Initial API requests authenticate with the email address and password for the account
to receive a token using a POST request to the keys endpoint. See the [User Keys](/v1/users/keys/)
documentation for details.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -u "dwight@tapability.org" https://tapability.org/api/v1/me/keys
</pre>

### Token (sent in a header)

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -H "X-Tapability-Token: TOKEN" https://tapability.org/api/v1/me
</pre>

## Pagination

Requests that return multiple items will be paginated to 30 items by
default.  You can specify further pages with the `?page` parameter. For some
resources, you can also set a custom page size up to 200 with the `?per_page` parameter.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl https://tapability.org/api/v1/jobs?page=2&per_page=200
</pre>

The pagination info is included in [the Link
header](http://www.w3.org/Protocols/9707-link-header.html). It is important to
follow these Link header values instead of constructing your own URLs.

_Linebreak is included for readability._

The possible `rel` values are:

`next`
: Shows the URL of the immediate next page of results.

`last`
: Shows the URL of the last page of results.

`first`
: Shows the URL of the first page of results.

`prev`
: Shows the URL of the immediate previous page of results.

## Rate Limiting

We limit API requests to 5,000 per hour. You can check the returned HTTP headers
of any API request to see your current status:

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://tapability.org/api/v1/me

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Status: 200 OK
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4999
</pre>

## User Agent Required

All API requests are encouraged to send a valid User Agent string. This is
usually the HTTP client that you are using. This is so we can contact you
if there are problems.

## Conditional requests

Most responses return `Last-Modified` and `Etag` headers. You can use the values
of these headers to make subsequent requests to those resources using the
`If-Modified-Since` and `If-None-Match` headers, respectively. If the resource
has not changed, the server will return a `304 Not Modified`. Also note: making
a conditional request and receiving a 304 response does not count against your
[Rate Limit](#rate-limiting), so we encourage you to use it whenever possible.

<pre class="terminal">
$ curl -i https://tapability.org/api/v1/me
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 200 OK
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4999

$ curl -i https://tapability.org/api/v1/me -H "If-Modified-Since: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT"
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4999

$ curl -i https://tapability.org/api/v1/me -H 'If-None-Match: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"'
HTTP/1.1 304 Not Modified
Cache-Control: private, max-age=60
ETag: "644b5b0155e6404a9cc4bd9d8b1ae730"
Last-Modified: Thu, 05 Jul 2012 15:31:30 GMT
Status: 304 Not Modified
Vary: Accept, Authorization, Cookie
X-RateLimit-Limit: 5000
X-RateLimit-Remaining: 4999
</pre>
